--- Page 1 --- Group Health Insurance Scheme Handboo kBupa Health Net --- Page 2 --- Contents at a glance Welcome 1 Useful contact s 2 Web and mobile services 3 Membership  Starting your membership 4  Managing your membership 6  Ending your membership 7  Topping up your cover age 8 Claim procedures  General information 9  Claiming Hospital and Surgi cal Benefit, SMM Benefit and Maternity Benefit 13  Claiming Clinical Benefit and Maternity Benefit (Using BHN Card) 15  Claiming Clinical Benefit, Maternity Benefit and Dental Benefit (Not using BHN Card) 16  Claiming Network Dental Benefit (Consultation a t Network Dental Centre ) 18 General exclusions 19 Glossary of terms 21 Your personal data 26 --- Page 3 --- 目錄 歡迎 27 有用聯絡資料 28 網上及手機服務 29 會籍  開始成為計劃成員 30  管理您的會籍 32  退出計劃 33  增值您的保障 34 申請賠償程序  一般資料 35  申請住院及手術保障附加醫療保障 及產科保障賠償 39  申請門診保障及產科保障 賠償使用保柏網絡醫療卡 40  申請門診保障產科保障及 牙科保障賠償不使用 保柏網絡醫療卡 41  申請網絡牙科保障賠償 於網絡牙科中心診治 43 不受保障項目 44 特別詞彙釋義 46 您的個人資料 49 --- Page 4 --- Welcome 1 Welcome to the Group Health Insurance Scheme (the Scheme) provided by your employer! The Scheme is a dministered and underwritten by Bupa (Asia) Limited ( Bupa ) and provides you with 24-hour worldwide coverage. From now on, you have access to expert health insurance services provided by Bupa. In this booklet, we have pu t together the key information you need to help you make the most of your cover, including a step -by-step g uide to making a claim. We encourage you to keep this booklet somewhere that is easy to reach. It will come in handy if you need to make a claim. As a health insurance specialist in Hong Kong, Bupa is part of the Bu pa group established in the UK in 1947. The Bupa group is now a leading international healthcare organisation serving millions of customers around the world through diversified healthcare services from health insurance to hospitals, care homes and health assessments. As Bupa does not have any shareholders, its profits are invested to provide more and better healthcare to customers and communities. In Hong Kong, the Bupa group also provid es primary healthcare services thr ough another member, Quality Healt hcare which is a leading provider of pr ivate outpatient services with an extensive network of medical centres. To ensure you understand your benefit entitlements, you are encouraged to rea d the relevant sections of this booklet in relation to your entitled benefits thoroughly in conjunction wit h the following:  Schedule of Benefits  Bupa Worldwide Assistance Programme Leaflet (if applicable) Should you have any questions regarding the Scheme or your membership, please do not hesitate to contact Bupas Custome r Care Helpdesk at (852) 2517 5388. Note: The information in this booklet is for members reference only. In the event of any conflict in the interpretation between the Eng lish version and the Chinese versi on, the English version shall prev ail. Should there be any discrepancy b etween this booklet and the provisions of the Group Health Insurance Contract, we shall follow the latter for final interpretation. --- Page 5 --- Useful contacts 2 As our valued m ember, you can enjoy our professio nal services anytime. You can con tact us or manage your membership in va rious ways: Get in touch for questions, claims, suggestions and compliments 24-hour Customer Care helpdesk: (852) 2517 5388 Office hou₹9.00: 00 am  7: 00 pm, Monday to Friday, (except p ublic holidays )  We are pleased to answer a ll your enquiries. Outside off ice hours We are happy to answer the following enquir ies:  information of HealthNet Service Providers  information of benefit entitlement  claim s and ot her Policy Number: ADMINISTRATIONPROCEDURESCLAIMFORMSE-MAIL: customerc are@bupa. com. hk Fax: (852) 3973 6970 Download forms Visit: www. bupa. com. hk  Customer care  Download forms You can also ask our Customer Care helpdesk to send you any form by fax. Write to us or visit us Address: 6/F, Tower 2, The Quayside, 77 Hoi Bu n Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong. --- Page 6 --- Web and mobile services 3 Making your life easier is part of our mission. As your healthcare partner, w e have created a range of support services to help you stay in con trol of your health insurance at a time that is convenient to you. Online and m obile services myBupa is your go -to pla ce to easily manage your cover. You can:  Check your membership details  Submit claims online (if applicable) # and provid e information to resolve pending claims  Access your eMedical Card or use Hospital eAdmission to send your member information to your selected hospital upon admission (if applicable) #  View membership documents  Check your claims status an d any outsta nding shortfall  View c laims statements and shortfall invoices (if applicable)  View clinical benefit usage  Download claim forms and other frequently used forms  Download your List of HealthNet Service Providers and Medpass Network Hospital List (if applicabl e)  Search and get inform ation for Healt hNet Service Provid ers and night clinics Register myBupa at mybupa. bupa. com. hk. Its free. To start using myBupa, simply follow the 6 steps for registration: 1. Go to myBupa website or mobile app and click  Register now; 2. Enter your membership number, HKID/p assport number and date of birth, then click Submit; 3. Enter your mobile number and email address, then click Send Verification Code to get the code sent to your email; 4. Enter the verification code; 5. Creat e your own l ogin ID and password; 6. Click Submit to complete the first -time registration. You can also download the myBupa free mobile app: Claims notification services You will receive a e -notification once your claims are processed, followed by a clai ms. Statement sent to your office a s usual (or by email if your company has opted for our e -Statement service). To enjoy this service, you can simply sign up by calling our Customer Care helpdesk at 2517 5388. # Whether you can use the hospital e -claims se rvice and eMedical Card on myBupa is subject to the arrangement of your group health insurance scheme. --- Page 7 --- Membership Starting your membership 4 Eligibility All full-time permanent employees aged below 65 years are eligible to join the Scheme. Your dependants may also be eligible to join if depen dant co ver is provided under the S cheme. Depend ants include:  your lawful spouse aged below 65 years; and  your lawful unmarried child(ren) aged from 15 days to 17 years (or aged from 18 years to 22 years if they are full -time students with valid proof upon request ). Effecti ve date of memb ership You will be en rolled into the Scheme on the date as set by your employer. In case you are sick and not actively at work on such date, your membership will commence on the day you return to work. Membership for your existi ng dependant s, if applicabl e, will begin on your memb ership commencement date. In case your dependants are hospitalised on such date, their membership will commence on the day following their discharge from hospital. --- Page 8 --- Membership Starting your membership 5 Your B upa HealthNet Card Poin ts to n ote upon receipt of BHN Car d  After enrolment in the S cheme, y ou and your dependants, if applicable, will each receive a Bupa HealthNet Card (BHN Card). o Your name and Bupa membership number are imprinted on the front of the BHN Card. o You and your d ependan ts should ch eck the accurac y of the names and si gn on the back of the BHN Card. Use of BHN Card  The BHN Card can be used to settle payment for the following services if specified in the Schedule of Benefits: o in-patient t reatments at the private hos pitals in Hong Kong as listed in t he List of HealthNet Servi ce Providers; o clinical consultations and laboratory tests carried out by HealthNet Service Providers in Hong Kong and Macau as listed in the List of HealthNet Service Providers (payable under HealthNet B enefit); o consultations or t reatments at the outp atien t department of the private hospitals in Hong Kong as listed in the List of HealthNet Service Providers (payable under Non -HealthNet Benefit); and o video consultation services with eligible BHN card if yo u have Healt hNet Clinical B enefit. Consult our desig nated HealthNet General Practitioners and Chinese Herbalist s through a video call comfortably and safely at home. Only eligible medical expenses are covered and all medication delivery charges sh all not be payable. Visit www. bupa. co m. hk/ vc for details. What should I do if I lose my BHN Card?  You should inform your employer within 24 hours in case of loss or theft of your BHN Card and submit a complete d Declaration of Membership Card Loss to you r employer. If you do not report su ch lo ss, you may be held liable for any costs arising from any unauthorised use of the BHN Card.  The first card replacement is free of charge. An administration fee of HK$100 pe r card will be charged for sub sequ ent replacements in the same contract year. --- Page 9 --- Membership Managing your membership 6 Enrolment of new dependants How do I enrol new dependants? (if applicable) Newly married spouse  Please notify your employer within 31 days of your marriage.  Your spouses membership will begin on the registered date of marriage. Newborn child  Please notify your employer within 45 days of your child s birth and submit a photocopy of the birth certificate for verification.  Your childs membership will begin on the 15th day from the date of birth. Note: If you inform your employer after the above- mentione d notification period, your new dependants membership commencement date may be postponed to a date as determined by Bupa. --- Page 10 --- Membership Ending your membe rship 7 Termination of membership Event The membership for you and/or your dependant (if applica ble) will automatically end o n: Leaving service The date of leaving service You or your spouse reaches the age of 65 The Schemes Contract Anniversary Date immediately following the attainment of 65 years old Children grow up The Schemes Co ntract Anniv ersary Date immediately following the attainment of:  18 years old if the child is not a full -time student; or  23 years old Divorce * The date your divorce takes effect Dependant passes away * The day after the de ath of your dependant * If either of thes e events occur s, you need to notify your employer within 31 days to end the membership of your dependant(s). Note: Please return the BHN Card(s) to your employer no later than the effective date of termination. --- Page 11 --- Membership Topping up your coverage 8 Bupa offers the Scheme members t he opportuni ty to join our designated individual health insurance scheme at each members own c ost at different life stages (e. g, upon renewal of your group scheme, before or a fter chan ging jobs, before retirem ent) to boost your cove r. You and your depen dants, if ap plicable, can enrol in Bupa s designated individual health insurance scheme at the same room level under Hospital and Surgical Benefit as your entitled room level under your c urrent group Scheme at different life stages. B upa guarantees that your applicati on will be accepted without underwriting regardless of your health condition s1. Mor eover, medical conditions eligible under your group membership will be covered for life2 under the designated indivi dual health i nsurance scheme. You can enrol in Bupas designated individual health insurance scheme during any one of the following periods3: 1. Within 60 days of joining a Bupa group scheme; 2. Within 60 days after t he Contract Anniversa ry Date of a Bupa group scheme; 3. Within 30 days before or after termi nation of a Bupa group scheme membership; or 4. Within 30 days after marriage or childs birth. If you are interested in topping up your c overage, please contac t Bupas Customer Care helpdesk. 1 Please refer to the Eligibility section of the designated individual health insurance scheme brochure for details. 2 All pre -existing conditions which are payable under your Bupa group scheme shal l be covered under the designated individual health insu rance scheme if you have been conti nuously insured under a Bupa group scheme and/or the designa ted individual health i nsurance scheme for a total of at least 12 consecutive months, with the exception of those specified und er the Genera l Exclusions of the designated individual h ealth insuran ce scheme contract. B upa guarantees that your cover under the designa ted individual health insurance scheme can be renewed every year for life as long as you meet th e requirements as stat ed in the Ren ewal Clause of your contract. Bupa reserve s the right to amend the subscripti on, benefits, terms and conditions upon your contract renewal. You can refer to the designa ted individual health insurance scheme contract for f urther details. 3 If the num ber of employees joining your companys Bupa group scheme is be tween 2  9, you can only enrol in the designa ted individual health insurance scheme within 30 days before or after termination of your Bupa group scheme membership when your emplo yment e nds (e xcept w hen you retire). --- Page 12 --- Claim proc edures General informat ion 9 No m atter you choose He althNet or Non-HealthNet medical s ervice providers, please read this section carefully. Details of the claim procedures for the following medical benefits are included in later sections.  Hospital and Surgical Benefit  Supplementary Major Medical Benefit (SMM Benefit) (if applicable)  Clinical Benefit (if applicable)  Maternity Benefit (if applicable)  Dental Benefit (if applicable) You should read the claim procedures for your entitled benefits as shown in the Schedule of Benefits. Useful tips for claims No m atter you u se BHN Card or not, p lease note: 1 Tips on referral letter for Clinical Benefit: To be entitled to the following benefits (if applicable). You need to get a Referral Letter from: Specialist * General Practiti oner Physiotherapist / Chiropractor / all Diagnostic Imag ing & Laboratory Tests General Practitioner / Specialist Prescribed Western Medication General Practitioner / Specialist (issue Prescription ) X-ray only and Laboratory Tests Registered Chinese Medicine Practiti oner / Chiropractor Psychological Counsel ling The attending Psychiatrist * Referral is not required for Dermatology, Family Medicine, Gynaecology, Ophthalmology, Orthopaedics, Otolaryngology, Paediatric Surgery, Paediatrics and Psychiatry within HealthNet. Refer ral letter or prescription, if app licable, is valid for the same or related medical condition for 6 months from the issue date. Treatment for a new or unrelated medical condition will require a new referral letter or prescription. If you do not use BH N Card, pleas e note: 2 Tips on cl aiming for reimbursement of medical expenses:  You need to submit medical claims to Bupa within 90 days from the date of treatment or discharge from hospital; otherwise, they may b e declined for settleme nt.  Bupa will r eimburse you the eligible amount b y crediting your bank account in Hong Kong dollars within 5  7 working days upon receipt of all necessary documents.  Claim Forms can be downloaded from Bupas web site at www. bupa. com. hk. --- Page 13 --- Claim proc edures General informat ion 10 If you us e BHN Card, please note: 3 Tips on p re-authorisation for HealthNet Benefit: 4 Tips on shortfall incurred from using BHN Card: In case the expenses incurred via using the BHN Card exceed the benefit limits or the expenses are not cove red under the Scheme, Bupa w ill issue a Shortfall Invoice to you and you have to settle the shortfall amount to Bupa within 14 days after receipt of the Shortfall Invoice. Pre-auth orisation proc edures HealthNet Registered M edical Pr actitione r will help you seek pre -autho risation from Bupa for the following servi ces, if applicable: 1. diagnostic imaging or laboratory tests (as requi red by Bupas provider guidelines ) 2. treatment by a Non-HealthNet Speci alist (only if referred by a Heal thNet General Practit ioner whe n the necessary specialty is not availa ble within Bupa HealthNet) Note: 1. If pre -authorisation is required for emerg ency situa tions after Bupa s offi ce hours, subsequent aut horisation can be done on the nex t working day after tr eatmen t. 2. If you do n ot obtain pre-authorisation or pre -authorisation is not approved, all eligible medical expenses will be paid under Non -HealthNet Bene fit, if any. HealthNet Registere d Medical Prac titioner fills in the Pre-authori sation Form and faxes it to Bupa. 1 Bupa sends the pre -authorisation confirmation to HealthNet Registe red Medical Practitioner. 2 You need to check and si gn the pre -authorisation confirma tion and k eep the Member s copy. 3 Pre-authorisati on procedures --- Page 14 --- Claim proc edures General informat ion 11 Day Proc edure Benefit: 1 Coverage for endoscop y and viral warts and skin lesions procedures For day case or clinical p rocedures in Hong Kong Pre-authorisation is re quired for endosc opy and viral warts and skin lesions procedures. Your eligible expenses will be reimbursed differently depending o n what type of provider you choose:  For procedu res performed by HealthNet docto rs at HealthNet Service Pr oviders, you can en joy full cov er and cashless service for eligible expenses. Please visit a HealthNet Service Provider to enjoy cashless service with your BHN Card, after receiving pre-authorisatio n from Bupa.  For procedures at N on-HealthNet providers, yo ur eligible expense s will be co vered up to the maximum limit per member of Non -HealthNet Benefit under Day Case Endoscopy Procedure Benefit and Day Case Vir al Warts and Skin Lesions Procedure Bene fit. You should apply for pre -authorisation beforehand and s ettle your expenses with the se rvice providers directly. Then file a claim for reimbursement. Please note that Supplementary Major Medical Benefit doesnt apply to day case endoscopy or viral war ts and skin lesions procedures. If you dont get pre -authori sation from Bupa for day case o r clinical operations, you wont be entitled to any benefits and your medical expenses will not be paid. For p rocedures perfo rmed during hospital confinement in Ho ng Kong Endoscopy and viral warts and skin lesions procedures performed during hospital confi nement with an overnight stay will be reimbursed differently depending on what type of provider you choose and whether pre -authorisation was obtained:  With pre -authorisation from Bupa o At Health Net Ho spitals with a HealthNet d octor: Your eligible expenses w ill be payable under other b enefit items of HealthNet Benefit and Supplementary Major Medical Benefit, subject to the overall annual limit. o At your choice of d octor and hospital: Your eligible expens es will be covered under other benefit items of Non -Healt hNet Benefit and Supplementary Major Medical Benefit, subject to the maximum limit per member and o verall annual limit.  If yo u dont get pre -authorisation o At your choice of doctor and hospita l: Your claim (if eligible) will b e paid up to the maximum limit per member under Day Case Procedure Benefits only and overall annual limit. Supplementary Major Medical Benefit will not be a pplicable. --- Page 15 --- Claim proc edures General informat ion 12 Pre-authorisatio n procedures If you choo se a Non -HealthNet p rovider, you should follow these steps to get pre -authorisation before your endoscopy or viral warts and skin lesions procedure: 1. Simply download the Pre -authorisation Form from our website or myBupa, or call ou r Customer Care helpdesk to obtain it. 2. Comple te Part 1 of the form and ask your doctor to complete Part 2. Discuss with your doctor and choose your pr ivate hospital o r day -case centre. 3. Send the form to us by email, fax or post. 4. If your pre -authorisation is approved*, well inform you by ph one/email o r send you the Pre-authori sation Confirmation/Guarantee of Payment Letter upon request. For endoscopy and viral warts and skin lesions procedures performed outsid e Hong Kong, your eligible expenses will be cove red under other benefit items of Non-HealthNe t Benefit and Supplementar y Major Medic al Benefit in lieu of Day Case Procedure Ben efits. For the full list of endoscopy and viral warts and skin lesions procedure s covered under Day Case Procedure Benef its, pl ease refer to the Documents sectio n of Bupas customer service portal my Bupa. This lis t is subject to change from time to time. * It should take around 2 business days to complete the pre -authorisation once al l necessary information is received wit h a signed application form. The process above is only applicable to members wit h Day Case Procedu re Benefit s and the following medical card types: Clinical, Clinical  Not for X -ray and Lab, H ospital & Clin ical medical card types CLINICAL CLINICAL  NOT FOR X -RAY & LAB HOSPITAL & CLINICAL --- Page 16 --- Claim procedures Claiming Hospital and Surgical Benefit, SMM Benefit a nd Mat ernity Benefit 13 Using BHN Card (Applicable to member whos e BHN C ard is embossed with HOSP ITAL & CLINICAL ) Not Using BHN Card At the hospital  Present BHN Card for registration.  Sign the voucher.  Complete Part I of Bupa Hospital Claim Form.  The hospital administrator will arrange for completion of Part II of the Cla im Form by the attend ing R egistered Medical Practitioner.  Complete Part I of Bupa Hospital Cla im Form.  Ask your attending Registered Medical Practitioner to complete Part II of Bupa Hospital Claim Form for you. Upon discharge  Settle payment b y BHN C ard.  Settle the medic al bill by yourself first and obtain original receipt.  Obtain medical report or Discharge Summary, if any. After discharge  Bupa will settle the expenses directly with the hospital.  Bupa will notify you to settle shortfall, if any.  Within 90 days a fter the date of discharge, submit to Bupa: o completed Bupa Hospital Claim Form o original hospital receipt o medical report (if applicable) o Discharge Summary / Sick Leave Certificate (if applicable)  You ca n also submit your claims o nline by uploading the image s of the above documents to myBupa wi thin 90 days after the date of treatment. o Please keep the original receipt for 6 months from the date of claim submission. Bupa may request you to provide the origi nal receipt for auditing purpose. o In case you fail to p rovid e the original receipt, your cla im submission via myBupa eClaims Service may be affected.  Bupa will reimburse you the eligible amount within 5  7 working days. --- Page 17 --- Claim procedures Claiming Hospital and Surgical Benefit, SMM Benefit a nd Mat ernity Benefit 14 Other useful tips:  To claim for reimbursement of the expe nses fo r hospital confinemen t on acco unt of pregnancy under Mater nity Benefit, please follow the above claim procedures. Member whose BHN Card is embossed with H OSPITAL & CLINICAL  and MA can use the BHN Card to settle pregna ncy-related medical expense s incur red at the private ho spita ls in Hong Kong as listed in the List of HealthNet Service Providers. For claim s relating to prenatal or postnatal consultations and check -ups, please refer to the claim procedures for Clinical B enefit.  All original receip ts must include: o hospitalisa tion period o patients full name o name and address of the hospital and attending Registered Medical Practitioner o diagnosis o charges nature and breakdown o official stamp and/or signature of the attending Re gistered Medical Practition er and hosp ital  If you are a dmitt ed in a Hospital Authoritys hos pital, you do not need to ask the attending Registered Medical Practitioner to complete Part II of the Claim Form provided that the diagnosis and treatment details are provided on the receipt s, medi cal report, Discharge Summ ary or Sick Leave Certificate. --- Page 18 --- Claim procedures Claiming Clinical Benef it and Maternit y Benefit (Using BHN Card) 15 Consult HealthNet Service Providers  Visit the HealthNet Service Providers as listed in the List of HealthNet Service Providers.  You need to consult a General Prac titioner or Specialist to obtain a referral letter before consulting the fo llowing HealthNet Service Providers: o Specialists (except for Dermatology, Family Medicine, Gynaecology, Ophthalmology, Orthopaedics, Otolaryngology, Paediatric Surgery, Paediatrics and Psychiatry ) o Physiothera pists o Diagnostic Centres (Bupa also accepts referral letter from a Registered Chinese Medicine Practitioner or Chiropractor for X -ray only and laboratory tests )  HealthNet Registered Medical Practitioners will help you se ek pre -authorisation from Bupa for the foll owing services: o diagnostic imaging or lab oratory tests (as required by Bupas provider guidelines) o treatment by a Non -HealthNet Specialist (when the necessary specia lty is un available within HealthNet) (See Tips on pre -authorisation for HealthNet Benefit on P. 10 for deta ils) Present BHN Card for registration  Present the following prior to treatment: o BHN Card o referral letter (if applicable) o pre-authorisation confirma tion (if applicable )  Sign the voucher. Receive treatment  Health Net Registered Me dical Pra ctitioner s may prescr ibe you extra, long-term or expensiv e medication if r equired and such expenses will be paid under Prescribed Western Medication Benefit of He althNet Benefit, if applicable. Claim settlemen t  Bupa will sett le the expenses d irectly w ith the H ealthNet Ser vice Providers.  Bupa will notify you to settle shortf all, if any. Other useful tips:  Member whose BHN Card is embossed with MA can us e the BHN Card to settle pregnancy -related medical expen ses incurred at t he HealthNet Serv ice Provi ders. --- Page 19 --- Claim procedures Claimin g Clinical Benefit, Maternity Benefit and D ental Benefit (Not using BHN Card) 16 Consult an y medical service pr oviders or Regis tered Dentists of your choice  Visit any Registered Medical Practitioners, Physiotherapists, Chiropr actor s, Registered Chinese Medicine Practitioners, Diagn ostic Centres, Psychological C ouns elling or Register ed Dentists.  You n eed to consult a General Pract itioner or Specia list or the attending Psychiatrist to obtain a referral letter before consulting th e following medical service providers: o Specialists o Physiotherapist s o Chiropractors o Diagnost ic Centres (Bupa a lso accepts referral letter from a Registered Ch inese Medicine Practitioner or Chiropractor for X -ray only and laboratory tests ) o Psychological Counse lling (must be referred by the attending Psychiatrist ) Receive treatment and set tle the medical bill by yourself fi rst  Remember to obtain original rec eipt, referral le tter and prescrip tion, if any. Submit the claim to Bupa  Within 90 days after the date of treatment, submit to Bupa: o completed Bupa Cli nical Claim Form o original rec eipt o referral letter (i f applicable )  original or copy o prescription (i f applicable)  original or c opy  You can also submit your claims online by uploading the images of the above documents to myBupa within 90 days after the da te of treatment. o Please keep the o riginal receipt fo r 6 months f rom the date of claim submission. Bupa may request y ou to provid e the original receipt for auditing purpose. o In case you fail to provide the original rece ipt, your claim submission via myB upa eClaims Service may be aff ected. Claim settle ment  Bupa w ill reimburse yo u the eligible amoun t within 5  7 wo rking days. --- Page 20 --- Claim procedures Claimin g Clinical Benefit, Maternity Benefit and D ental Benefit (Not using BHN Card) 17 Other useful tips:  To claim for reimbursement of the expenses for consultations with an Obstetrician and prenatal or postna tal check -ups on account of p regna ncy under Maternit y Benefit, p lease follow the above claim procedu res.  All original receipts mu st include: o consultation date o patients full name o medical service provider s name and addres s o diagnosis o charges nature and brea kdown o official stamp and/or s ignat ure of medical ser vice provide rs  To claim for reimbursement under Chinese Herbalist Benefit or Chine se Bonesetter Benefit, the original receipt together with the original prescription mus t be submitted.  Prescription and me dication receipts must includ e: Obtain medication from: Clinic Pharmacy Require d claim documents: Original medicatio n receipt Prescri ption Original medication receipt Documents issued by: Clinic Clinic Pharmacy Issue d ate    Patients name    Service providers name and address    Diagnosis   Descrip tion of med icines    Charg es nature and breakd own   Official stamp and/or signature of service provider    --- Page 21 --- Claim procedures Claiming Network Denta l Bene fit (Consultation at Network Dental Centre) (Using BHN Card ) 18 Consult at Network Dental Centre*  Visit a Network De ntal Centre * of your choice. Present BHN Card for registrati on  Present the followi ng prior to treatment: o BHN C ard o Hong Kong Identi ty Card  Sign the voucher. Receive treatment  Proceed to the consultation and receive treatment. Claim settlement  Bupa will assess the claim submitt ed by the Network Dental Cent re* and settle the paym ent directly if direct billi ng arrangement is av ailable.  Bupa wil l notify you to settle shortfall, if any. * Please make your appointment by calli ng th e Network Dental Centre. Network Dental Centre refers to the network of dental servic e providers appoin ted by Bupa to provide dental services listed un der Network Dent al Benefit in the Schedule of Benefits. Locations of the Network Dental Centres in clude Admiralty, Causeway Bay, Quarry Bay, Tsim Sha Tsui, Tseung Kwan O, Sha Tin, Tsing Yi, Tung Chung, etc. This list s hall be updated from time to time, p lease log in to m yBupa to view the latest location list. Please contact the Network Dental Centres t o und erstand their consultation hours. --- Page 22 --- General exclusions 19 The Scheme sha ll not cover any treatment or expe nses incurred directly or indi rectly relating to: 1. Pre-existing conditions  means illness or injury that commenced or presented sign(s) and symptom(s), prior to the member s coverage commencement date. 2. Treatment, medical s ervice, medication or investigatio n which is no t Med ically Neces sary. 3. Any illness or bodily injury f or which co mpensa tion is pa yable unde r any laws or regulations or any other insurance Policy Number: ORANYOTHERSOURCESEXCEPTTOTHEEXTENTTHATSUCHCHARGESARENOTREIMBURSEDBYANYSUCHCOMPENSATION, insur ance Policy Number: ORSOURCES. 4. Any charges for accommodation, nursing a nd ser vices rece ived in he alth hydros, nature cure clinics, convalescent home, rest home, home for t he ag ed or similar establishments. 5. Any charg es in respect of surgical or non -surgical cosme tic treatment (unless necessitated by injury caused b y an Accide nt and the Membe r receives the Medically Necessary treatments or related services within one (1) yea r of the Accident), Hair Mineral Analysis (HM A), health supplements or body weight control ( unles s approved b y Bupa). 6. Any charges in respect of p reventive m easure s includin g but not limited to routine blood tests, general check -ups, vaccination or inoculat ions, hearing tests, eye refraction including routine eye tests or any cost of fitting of sp ectac les or lens (unless it is payable under the rele vant Benefi ts). 7. Congenital Conditions, Developmental Condition s or Hereditary Conditions. 8. Treatment that commen ced d uring the first five (5) years from the Coverage Commencement Date of this Scheme and which in any way arises from, is attributable to, or i s consequen tial upon Human Immunodefi ciency Virus Infection. 9. Sexually Transmitted (Venereal) Diseases or their seque l. 10. Treatment relating to pregnancy, incl uding diagnostic tests for pregnan cy or resulti ng ch ildbirth, abortion or miscarriage (unless it is payable und er Mat ernity Ben efit); birth control, sterilisation or sex reassignment of either sex; infertility i nclud ing in-vitro fertilisation or any other artificial method of inducing preg nancy; or sexual d ysfunction i ncluding but not limited to impotenc e, erectile dysfu nction and pre-matur e ejaculation, regardless of cause. 11. Misuse or overdose of drugs or being u nder the influence of alcohol, self -inflicted injuries or attempted suicide. 12. Treatment relat ing t o any illnes s or bodily injury resulting from pa rticipation in cr iminal activities. 13. Alternative treatment incl uding but not limited to Chinese Medicines treatm ent, acup uncture, acupressure, tui na, hypnot ism, rolfing, massage therapy and aromatherapy (unless it is payable under Chinese Herbalist Benefit, Chinese B oneset ter Benefi t or Psych iatric- related Treatments Benefit, if applicable ). --- Page 23 --- General exclusions 20 14. Senile Dementia (inclu ding Alzheimers disease) and Parkinsons dis ease. 15. Any charges for the procurem ent or use of spec ial braces a nd appliances, including but not limited to spe ctacle s, hearing aids and other equipments such as wheel chairs and crutches. 16. Any treatment or inves tigation related to dental or gum conditions unless it is covered under Dental Benefit or Em ergen cy treatment arising from Accidents or the extra ction of impacted wisdom te eth during Hospital Confinement. Fo llow-up treatment from such Hospital Confinement shall not be covered unless it is payable und er Dental Benefit. 17. Treatment arisi ng from war, invas ion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities (wheth er war be declare d or not), civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection or military or usurped power or terrorist acts. 18. Non-medical services, including b ut not limited to guest meals, rad io, telephone, pho tocopy, taxes (except the Value -Added Tax or Goo ds and Serv ices Tax for med ical services), medical report char ges and the like. 19. Expenses incurred for experimen tal o r unproven medical technology or procedu re not in accordance with the stan dards of good and prudent medi cal practice. For the purposes of interpreting stand ards of go od and pru dent medical practice, B upa shall consider (I) standards that are based o n clinically proven evidence in appropriately reviewed, independent medical jou rnals; (II) releva nt specialty body recommendations; and (III) in accordance with standards of generally accepted medical practice. 20. Engaging or taking part in naval, military o r airforce or any operation with any armed for ce; or any form of professional sports. --- Page 24 --- Glossary of terms 21 Capitalised words are either proper nouns or words with specific meaning as defined in the Contract of Group Health Insurance Scheme. Some important definitio ns are set out below. Accident means an external, sudd en, violent and unexpected event of visible nature which shall, independently of any other cause, be the s ole cause of bodily i njury. Chiropractor means a person (other than the Member himself, his relatives, families and business partners unless appr oved by Bupa) legally qualified in Hong Kong or any oth er place where medical expenses are incurred to ren der chiropractic serv ice through manipula tion of joints and having qualifications at least equivalent to those of a chiropractor registered pursuant t o the Chiropractors Registration Ordinance of Hong Kong. Clinical Operation means a surgical procedure which may effectivel y be undertaken at a clinic by a Registered Medical Practitioner where a stay in Hospital is not Medically Necessary provided tha t the surgical procedure falls under Bupas Schedule of Surgical Operations and is classified as Clinical Operation therein. Congenital Conditions means medical abnormalities existing at the time of birth, regardless of whether they are known or unknow n to the Member or Subscriber. They shall include (but not to the exclusion of others which may medically be regarded as congen ital conditions), strabismus (squint), hydrocephalus, undescended testicle, Meckels diverticulum, flat foot, heart septal defect and indirect inguinal hernias. Day Case  means a su rgical pro cedure, Non-surgical Cancer Treatment a nd kidney dialysis (i f applicable under this contract) which may effectively be undertaken at a clinic or day case unit of a Hospital by a Registered Medical Practitioner where an overnight stay in Hospital is not Med ically Necessary, provided that the sur gical procedure falls under Bupas Schedule of Surgical Operations and is classified as Day Case therein. Developmental Conditions means abnormal development compared to what is expected at the given age level or stage of development. These impairments or disabilities orig inate before the age of eighteen (18), may be expected to continue indefinitely, and constitute a substantial impairment. Biologi cal and non -biological factors are involve d in these dis orders. They shall include (but not to the exclusi on of others which ma y medically be regarded as developmental conditions) language and learning disorders, autism and mental retardation. --- Page 25 --- Glossary of terms 22 Disabil ity means an injury or sickness, and shall include all d isabilities arising from the same cause including a ny and all complica tions therefrom, except that after ninety (90) days following the latest discharge from Hospital or the last consultation during which no treatment is received. Any subsequent disability from the same cause shall be considered as a separ ate disability. General Practitioner means a Registered Medical Practitioner who is registered in the General Register of the Medical Council of Hong Kong or equivalent. Hereditary Conditions mean s medical conditions genetically transmitted from p arent to offspring. Hospital means any establishment licensed as a hospital by proper authority to provide medical services of the sick, injured or those who require medical treatment, which has govern ment approved facilities for diagnosis, major surge ry and twenty -four (24) hour nursing service and has a Registered Medical Practitioner in regular attendance. Hospital does not include any establ ishment or that portion of any establishment which is ope rated as a convalescent or nursing home, rest home, home for the aged, or an establishment for rehabilitation of alcoholics or drug addicts, or any similar purpose. Hospital Confine ment means con finement in a Hospital for we stern medicine and surgical services as a result of a Medically Necessary condi tion and recommende d by a Registered Medical Practitioner. For the purpose of this Contract, the Member must stay in the Hospital for the entire per iod of confinement and room a nd board charges must be in curred. Medically Necessary means the necessity to have a treatment, medical service or medication which i s: (a) consistent with the diagnosis and custo mary me dical treatmen t for the condition at a N ormal and Customary charge; (b) in accordance with standards of good and prudent medical practice; (c) necessary for such a diagnosis o r treatment; (d) not furnished primaril y for the convenience of the Member, Registered Medical Pra ctitioner, Registered Chinese Medic ine Practitioner, Chiropractor, Physiotherapist, Qualified Nurse, Anaesthetist, Registered Dentist, Register ed Dental Hygienist or any other medical service provi ders; (e) furnished at the most appropriate level w hich can be safely and effectively p rovided to the Member; and (f) with respect to Hospital Confinement, not furnished primarily --- Page 26 --- Glossary of terms 23 for diagnostic scanning purpos e, imaging examinat ion or physical therapy. For the avoidance of doubt, the recommendation of the attending Regist ered Medical Practitioner is not the sole factor to be considered when determining whether a treatment, medical service or medication is Medi cally Necessary For the purpose of this Contract, without pre judice to the generality of the foreg oing, circumstan ces where a Hospital Confinement is considered Medically Necessary include, but are not limited to - (i) the Member is having an Emergency that r equires urgent treatment which should be performed at a Hospital; (ii) surgical procedures whi ch are medically required to be performed under general ana esthesia; (iii) equipment for surgical procedure is available in Hospital and procedure cannot be done on a Day Case basis; (iv) there i s significantly severe co -morbidity of the Member; and/ or (v) taking into account the individual ci rcumstances of the Member and for the safety of the Member, the medical service should only be conduc ted in Hospital. For the purposes of in terpreting standar ds of good and prudent medical practice, Bupa shal l consider the followings: I. standards that are based on clinically proven evide nce in appropriately reviewed, independent medical journals; II. relevant specialty body recommendations; and III. in accordance with s tandards of generally accepted medical practice. Member means an Employee and his Dependents who are covered under the Cont ract. Network Dental Centre means the network of dental service providers appointed by Bupa to provide t he covered dental ser vices items as specified under the Schedule of Benefits. The particulars of these dental service providers are published by Bup a in either print or digital format and shall be amended from time t o time. Non-surgical Cancer Treatment  means cancer trea tment for chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted therapy, immunoth erapy and hormonal therapy. --- Page 27 --- Glossary of terms 24 Normal and Customary in relation to fees, such level which does not exceed the general range of charges being charged by the relevant service providers in the local ity where the charge is incurred for similar treat ment, services or supplies to individuals with similar conditions, e. g. of the same sex and similar age, for a similar disability, as reasonably determined by Bupa in utmost go od faith. The Norma l and Custom ary charges shall not in any event exceed the act ual charges incurred. In determining whe ther a charge is Normal and Customa ry, Bupa shall make reference to the followings (if applicable), (a) treatment or service fee statistics and surveys in the insurance or medical industry; (b) internal or industry claim st atistics; (c) gazette published by the Hong K ong government; and/or (d) other pertinent source of reference in the locality where the treatments, services or supplies are provided. Operating Th eatre means any facility designated for and equipped to perform surgical operations or procedures, and have satisfied at least equiva lent to the requirements stipulated in the Code of Practice for Day Procedure Centres or the Code o f Practice for Hospita ls issue d by the Director of Health in Hong Kong, or any other applicable code of practice or regulation pursuant to the Private Health care Facilities Ordinance (Chapter 633, Laws of Hong Kong). Overall Annual Limit means the aggregate s um of Benefits as shown in the Schedule of Benefits that a Member is entitled to receive during the Contract Year under Description of Benefits  Hospital and Surgical Benefit. Physiotherapi st means a person (other than the Member himsel f, his relati ves, familie s and b usiness partners unless approved by Bupa) legally qualified in Hong Kong or any other place where medical expenses are incurred t o render assessment and treatment service on physical disabilities by means of remedial exercis es, manual th erapy and me chanica l, thermal or electrical energy and having qualifications at least equivalent to those of a physiotherapist registered pursuant t o the Supplementary Medical Professions Ordinance of Hong Kong. --- Page 28 --- Glossary of terms 25 Registered Chinese Medicine P ractitioner means a Ch inese medicine practitioner (other than the Member himself, his relatives, families and business partners unless approved by Bupa ), legally authorised in Hong Kong or any other place where medical expenses are incurred to apply medicine treatment in Chines e traditional approach, and having qualifications at least equivalent to those of a Chinese medicine practitioner registered purs uant to the Chinese Medicine Ordinance of Hong Kong. Registered Dentist  means a ny person (other than t he Member himself, hi s relatives, family or business p artners unless approved by Bupa) who is legally authorised in Hong Kong or any other place where medical expenses are incurred to render dental servic es and has qualifications at leas t equivalent to tho se of a dentist regis tered pursuan t to the Dentist Reg istration Ordinance (Cha pter 156, Laws of Hong Kong ). Registered Medical Practitioner means any person (other than the Member himself, his relatives, family or business partners u nless approved by Bupa) who is legally a uthorised in Hong Kong or any other place where medical expen ses are incurred to render w estern medical and surgical services and has qualifications at least equivalent to those of a medical practitioner registered p ursuant to the Medical Registration Ordi nance (Chapter 161, Laws of Hong Kong ). Spec ial Services  means treatment of dialysis, Non -surgical Cancer Treatment or treatm ent involving radioactive isotope. Specia list means a Registered Medical Practition er approved as such b y Bupa or a Registe red Medical Practitioner who is registered under the Specialist Reg ister of the Medical Council of Hong Kong or equivalent regist ration in the place wher e medic al ex penses a re incurred and qualified to practise speci alist care according to the qualified sp ecialty. --- Page 29 --- Your per sonal data 26 1. Keeping your persona l data confidential is very importan t to us. From tim e to time, it may be necessary for Bupa to collect personal information relating to you or you r dep enda nt including without limit ation your or your de pendants name, ide ntity card number (and copy of ide ntity card), or passport number (and copy of pa ssport ), contact informati on, health and medical information and financial information (Personal In forma tion) in connection with the provision of health i nsurance services o r the processing of he alth insuran ce claims (including where relevant, credit inf ormati on and claims histor y). Failure to supply such Personal Information will result in Bupa being unable to process/provide insurance products/ services a nd other related services to you. 2. Any Per sonal Inform ation collected or held by Bupa, whe ther contai ned in the application for m or obtained in any c laim processing procedure or otherwise from time to time may be used by Bupa only for t he purposes of: (a) proce ssing the applicati on and providing subse quent servic es; (b) processing any claims analysis a nd/or medical or other insurance -related checks; (c) provision and design of insurance products and services of Bup a; (d) detect ing and preventing fraud ( whether or not relati ng to the Policy Number: ISSUEDINRESPECTOFANYAPPLICATIONORCLAIM); (e) data matching, statistic s and resea rch re asonably incidental to or related to the i nsurance products and/or services provided by Bupa; (f) commu nication with you or your depe ndants in relation to any of the purpose s set out in Part 2 of this sectio n; (g) enabling an actual or proposed as signee, tra nsfere e, participant or su b-participant of all or a substantial part of Bupas rights or business to evaluate the transaction intended to be the subject of the assignment, tra nsfer, participat ion o r sub-partic ipation; and (h) making disclosure to sa tisfy any a pplica ble legal or regulat ory requirements. 3. Such Personal Information may be transferred for the pur poses as specified in paragraph 2 o f this section to any of the following c lasses of transfe rees (within or o utside Hong Kong): any company withi n the Bupa group of companies, any in surance intermediaries, any reinsurance companies authorised by Bupa, healthcar e professionals and hospitals, your employer, any agents, contractors or third party se rvice providers w ho provide administrative, telecommu nications, comput er, payment, data pr ocessing or storage, p rinting, research or other services to Bupa in conne ction with the operation of Bupas business (including w ithout limitation i nsurers, banks, l awyers, accountan ts, claims investigators, debt colle ction agenc ies, data processing compa nies, fraud prevention agencies, organisations that consolidate claims and unde rwriting information for the i nsurance industry, re search agencies and professional advisors ), any actua l or proposed assignee, transferee, participant or su b-participant of all or a substantial part of Bupas rights or business; any person to whom Bu pa is under an obligation to make d isclosure under the r equirements of any law, rules, regul ation s, codes of practice or guidelines binding on Bu pa includin g, wit hout limitation, any applicable regulators, governmental bodies, industry recognised bodies, c redit reference agencies, the Court s, and where otherwis e required by law. 4. You shall have the rig ht to access and request correction of your Pers onal Inform ation held by us. You can contact the Data Prote ction Officer of Bupa (Asia) Limited at 6/F, Tower 2, The Quayside, 77 Hoi Bun Road, Kw un Tong, Kowloon, Hon g Kong. If you have any questions, please contact our Customer Ca re helpdesk at (852) 2517 5388. --- Page 30 --- 歡迎 27 歡迎參加由 您的僱主提供的團體醫療計劃以下簡稱計劃 本計劃由保柏亞洲有限公司以 下簡稱 保柏管理及承保 提供 24小時全球保障由現在起您可享有由保柏為您提供的專業 醫療保障服務 此計劃手 冊詳述有關此計劃的主要 資訊及索償步驟以助 您了解如何盡享您的保障請 妥善保存此手 冊以便 在有需要時可隨時參閱 保柏是本港的醫療保險專家為保柏集團成 員之一集團在 1947年於英國成立至今已成 為領導市 場的國際醫療保健機構在全球多個國家為客 戶提供服務保柏集團提供多元化的醫療保健服務包 括醫療保險醫院安 老服務及健康評估 由於保柏集團不 實行股東制因此可將盈利投 放於提升客 戶及社會的醫療服務 之上在香港 保柏集團透過另一成員卓健醫療 為市民提供醫療保健服務卓 健醫療為 香港領先的私營門診服務商有龐大的醫療中心網絡 為確保您了解所享有的保障懇請 細心閱讀此指引的相關部分及以 下隨附文件  保障金額表  保柏國際援助計劃單張如適用 如您對本計劃或會籍有任 何疑問歡迎隨時致電保柏客 戶服務專線 (852) 2517 5388 附註 本手冊的資料僅供 計劃成員參考若中 英文版本的詮釋有任何差別 概以英文版本為準若本手冊內容與團 體醫療保險合約的條文有任何歧異概以 後者為準 --- Page 31 --- 有用聯絡資料 28 貴為我們尊貴的 客戶您將會體驗到我們殷勤的服務 您可透過以下不同方式聯絡我們或管理 您的 會籍 有關查詢索償意見及讚賞 24小時客戶服務專線 (852) 2517 5 388 辦公時間 星期一至星期五公眾假期除外上午9時至下午7時  我們樂意解答您的 所有查詢 辦公時間以外 我們為您解答 以下查詢  網絡服務供應商資料  保障範圍  申請賠償程序及其他 保單行政程序  賠償申請表 電郵 customercare@b upa. com. hk 傳真 (852) 3973 69 70 下載表格 登入 www. bupa. com. hk  客戶服務  下載表格 您亦可致電我們的客戶服務專線以傳真方式索取表格 致函我們或親臨本公司 地址 香港九龍觀塘海濱道 77號海濱匯第 2座6樓 --- Page 32 --- 網上及手機服務 29 作為您的 醫療保健夥伴我們希望透過以下一系列的 服務讓您隨時輕易地享用您的醫療保 障 網上及手機應用程式服務 myBupa 讓您輕易地使用此保障計劃的服務您可   查閱會籍 資料  網上遞交索償如適用#及補充索償資料  使用電子醫療卡或使用電子入院登記以於入院時將 您的會員資料傳送至所選醫院如適用#  瀏覽會籍 文件  查閱賠償進度及所欠差額  查閱賠償單及差額通知書如適用  查閱門診保障使用量  下載賠償申請表及其他常用表格  下載網絡服務供應商目錄 及任中橫網絡醫院名單 如適用  搜尋及即時獲得網絡醫療服 務供應商及夜間診所的資料 請即瀏覽保柏網頁 mybupa. bupa. com. hk 免費登記使用 myBupa 首次使用 myBupa 前只需依照以下 6個簡單步驟便可 完成登記手續 1. 登入myBupa 網頁或手機應用程式 然後按立即登記  2. 輸入您的會員編號香港身份證 /護照號碼及出生日期然後按提交  3. 輸入您的手提電話號碼及電郵地址後按發送驗證編號驗證編號便會發送至您的電郵  4. 輸入驗證編號  5. 建立您的登入名稱及密碼 6. 按提交便完成首次登記手續  myBup a亦提供免費手機應用程式 賠償短訊通知服務 在您的賠償辦妥後我們將會發出電子通知之後 您會如常從公司收取賠償單如 您的公司已登記 使用我們的電子結算表服務 您便會收到電郵通知 您可致電保柏客戶服務專線 2517 5388 登記短訊通知服務  # 您是否可透過 myBupa 遞交住院索償及使用電子醫療卡將以 您的團體醫療保障計劃之安排為準  --- Page 33 --- 會籍 開始成為計劃成員 30 參加資格 所有 65歲以下的全職僱員均可參加本 計劃 如本計劃提供家屬保障則 您的家屬亦可參加本計劃家屬包括  您的合法配偶年齡須為 65歲以下及  您的合法未婚子女年齡須介乎出生後 15日至 17歲或18歲至 22歲若能在保柏要求時出示 有效證明之全職學生  成員資格生效日期 您將根據 您的僱主所訂立的日期 開始成為計劃成員若您 因病未能於當日上班您 的成員資格將順延 至您康復 後首個上班日起開始生效 您現有的家屬 如適用也會於 您的成員資格生效日起成為計劃成員 若您的家屬於 您的成員資格生 效當日正在住院其成員資格將 順延至出院翌日起開始生效 --- Page 34 --- 會籍 開始成為計劃成員 31 您的保柏網絡醫療卡 收到保柏網絡醫療卡時需 注意的事項  當您成為計劃成 員後您及您的家屬如適用將個別獲發一 張 保柏網絡醫療卡 o 保柏網絡醫療卡 正面印有您的姓名和會員編號 o 您及您的家屬必須核對卡上姓名並在背面簽署 保柏網絡醫療卡的用途  您可按照保障金額表所述 使用保柏網絡醫療卡為以下 服務結賬 o 由 網絡服務供應商目錄 所列的本港 私家醫院提 供的住院治 療 o 由 網絡服務供應商目錄 所列的本 港及澳門網絡醫療服務機 構提供的門診服務及化驗服務 於網絡保障作出賠償 o 由 網絡服務供應 商目錄 所列的本港私家醫院之門診部 提供 的門診或治療服務 於非網絡保障作出賠償 及 o 您可憑合資格醫 療卡享用視像診症服務 安坐家中讓我們指定 的網絡普通科醫生 及中醫師為您進行視像診 症只有合資格的 醫療費用方可獲得保障任何藥物運費均不獲賠償詳情請瀏 覽www. bupa. com. hk/vc 若遺失保柏網絡醫療卡 應如何處理  如發現保柏網絡醫療卡遭盜竊或遺失 您須在 24小時內向您 的僱主報失並把填妥的遺失網絡醫療卡聲明表交回僱主 否則您將須負責一切因不當使用此卡所引致的費用  首張補發的保柏網絡醫療卡 費用全免但如於同一合約 年度 內須再次補發失卡則每張卡收取港幣 100元的手續費 --- Page 35 --- 會籍 管理您的會籍 32 申請新家屬參加計劃 我應如何加入新家屬如適用 新婚配偶  您須於婚後 31日內通知 您的僱主  您配偶的成員資格將於註冊 結婚日生效 新生子女  您須於子女出生後 45日內通知 您的僱主並提交出生證明書副本 以 作核實  您子女的成員資格將於出生後 15日生效 注意 如您未能 於上述時限內通知您的僱主 您新家屬 的醫療保障計劃生效日期或會相應延遲而有關日期 將由保柏決定 --- Page 36 --- 會籍 退出計劃 33 終止會籍 事由 您及或您家屬如適用的成員資格將於以下日子自動終止 離職 離職當日 您或您的配偶年屆 65歲 屆滿 65歲後的計劃 合約週年日 子女長大 屆滿以下年歲的計劃合約週年日  年屆 18歲而不再是全 日制學生或  年屆 23歲 離婚 * 離婚生效當日 家屬離世 * 家屬離世翌日 * 若您家屬因這些原因而令其成員資格 終止您須於 31日內通知您的僱主  注意 請於退出計劃生效日前把保柏網絡 醫療卡交回您的僱主  --- Page 37 --- 會籍 增值您的保障 34 保柏為計劃成員提供參加指定個人醫療保障計劃的機會 在團體醫保上更添一重保障 成員可於人生 不同階段如團體醫保續保時離 職前後退休前加入 有關計劃所有有關費用 由成員自行支付 您及您的家屬如適用可加入 保柏指定的個人醫療保障計劃 享有與現有醫體計劃相同 住房級別的 住院及手術保障 不論健康 狀況如何均無須核保及 保證接受申請1而且所有於團體計劃中受 保的疾病均可在 保柏指定的個人 醫療保障計劃內獲終生保障2 您可於以下任何一 段時間投保3 1. 加入保柏團體醫保計劃的 60天內 2. 保柏團體醫保計劃的合約週年日後 60天內 3. 保柏團體醫保計劃終止前或後 30天內或 4. 在結婚或子女出生後 30天內 若您有興趣增值您的保障請聯絡保柏客戶服務專線 1 詳情請參閱 指定的個人醫療保障計 劃產品冊子的投保資格部分 2 只要您受保於保柏團體醫保及或 指定的個人醫療保障計劃 合共最少連續 12 個月所有在 您的保柏團體計劃下可獲賠 償的已存 在病症將於 指定的個人醫療保障計劃 下受到保障 除非該病症於 指定的個人醫療保障計劃合約內列明為 不受保障 項目保柏保證 您在指定的個人醫療保障計劃 下的保障可獲每年續保至終生只要 您符合合約內所列明的續保要求保柏 保留在合約續保時更改保費保障條款及細則 的權利 您可參閱 指定的個人醫療保障計劃 合約以了 解詳情 3 若您所屬的企業參加保柏 團體醫保計劃的人數為 2  9人您只 可於離職時退休除外在 您的保柏團 體醫保計劃終 止前或後 30天內投保 指定的個人醫療保障計 劃 --- Page 38 --- 申請賠償程序 一般資料 35 不論您選用網絡或非網絡醫療服務機構 請細心閱讀此部份 隨後將詳列申請賠償下列醫療保障項目 的程序  住院及手術 保障  附加醫療 保障如適用  門診保障 如適用  產科保障如適用  牙科保障如適用 您應按照保障金額表細閱 您可享有的保障項目之申請賠 償程序 實用索償提示 無論您是否使用保柏網絡醫療卡請注意 1 有關門診保障之轉介信的提示 為享有以下保障如適用. 您必須取得下列醫生發出的轉介信 專科醫生 * 普通科醫生 物理治療師脊醫所有 診斷影像及化驗 普通科醫生專科醫生 醫生處方 西藥 普通科醫生專科醫生 發出西藥處方 只適用於 X光及化驗 註冊中醫脊 醫 臨床心理 輔導 主診精神科醫生 * 如前往網絡的皮膚科 家庭醫學科婦科 眼科骨科耳鼻喉科小兒外科 兒科及 精神科時無須提交 任何轉介信 成員可在轉介信或西藥處方如適用發出日起計6個月內就相同或相關病症使用該轉 介信或西藥處方若診治全新或不相關的病症則須提交新的轉介信或西藥處方 如果您不使用保柏網絡醫療卡請注意 2 有關申請賠償醫療費用的提示  您須於診治或出院後 90日內向保柏申請賠償 醫療費用逾期申請將不受理  保柏將於收到所有有關文件後的 5  7個工作天內透過自動轉 賬以港元支付 您的合資格費 用  賠償申請表可於保柏網頁 (www. bupa. com. hk) 下載 --- Page 39 --- 申請賠償程序 一般資料 36 如果您使用保柏網絡醫療卡請注意 3 有關網絡保障之初步保障審核程序的提示 4 有關使用保柏網絡醫療卡而引致差額的提示 若以保柏網絡醫療卡支付的費用超過本計劃的保障限額或並非屬於保障範圍內保柏 將向 您發出差額通知書而您 須於收到差額通知書後14日內向保柏繳付有關差額費用 網絡醫生填寫初 步保障審核表並把表格傳真至保柏 1 保柏向網絡醫生發出 初步保障審核確認書 2 您必須查核並簽署初步 保障審核確認書並保留成員副本 3 初步保障審核程序 網絡註冊西醫將協助您就以下項目如適用向保柏提出初步保障審核的申請 1. 診斷性 X光檢驗或化驗 (按保柏供應商指引之要求 ) 2. 非網絡專科醫生的治療 (必須由網絡 普通科醫生轉介並只限於 保柏網絡未能提供 有 關專科服務) 附註 1. 若您於保柏的辦公時間以外遇上需要 初步保障審核的 緊急情況您可先接受治療然 後於下一個工作天補辦初步保障審核 手續 2. 若您沒有申辦初步保障審核或未能獲得初步保障審核則所有合資格的醫療費用將按 非網絡保障如有 作出賠償 --- Page 40 --- 申請賠償程序 一般資料 37 日間手術保障: 1 有關內窺鏡和病毒性疣及皮損程序的保障 如屬於香港進行的日症或診所手術 內窺鏡和病毒性疣及皮損程序必須獲取初步保障審核 您的合資格費用將根據 您所選擇的供應商 類別而有不同的賠償方式  如於網絡 服務供應商由網絡醫生進行有關程序 您的合資格費用可獲全數賠償及享免找 數服務請在獲 得保柏的初步保障審核後於網絡服務供應商使用保柏網絡醫療卡 以享用免找數服務  如於非網絡供應商進行有關程序 您的合資格費用將於日間內窺鏡程序保障和日 間病毒性疣及皮損程序保障下賠償並以非網絡保障之每位會員最高賠償額 為限您須 預先申請初步保障審核並 直接向服務供應商繳付 您的費用然後提交索償申請 請注意附加醫療保障並不適用於日間內窺鏡或病毒性疣及皮損程序 如您未有就日症或診所手術取得保柏的初步保障審核 您將不會獲得任何保障及醫療費用賠償 如屬於香港進行的住院程序 就需要過夜的住院期間進 行的內窺鏡和病毒性疣及皮損程序將根據 您所選擇的醫療服務供應商 類別及有否獲取初步保障審核而有不同的賠償方式  如已獲取保柏的初步保障審核 o 於網絡醫院由網絡醫生進行 您的合資格費用將於 網絡保障的其他 項目及附加醫 療保障下賠償以每年最高賠償額為限 o 由您所選的醫 生及醫院進行 您的合資格費用將於 非網絡保障的 其他項目及 附加 醫療保障下賠償並以每位會員最高賠償額及每年最高賠償額為限  如您沒有獲取初步保障審核 o 由您所選的醫生及醫 院進行您的索償如合資格只可於日間手 術保障下賠 償並以每位會員最高賠償額及 每年最高賠償額為限 附加醫療保障將不適用 索取初步保障審核的步驟 如您選擇非網絡供應商 您必須在進行內窺鏡或病毒性疣及皮損程序前依循以下步驟獲取初步 保障審核 1. 於保柏網站或 myBupa 下載初步保障審核表格或致電 我們的客戶服務專線索取 2. 請自行填妥第一部分及請 您的主診醫生填妥第二部分請與 您的主診醫生商量選擇入 住的私家醫院或日症中心 3. 請將已填妥的表格電郵傳真或郵寄給我們 --- Page 41 --- 申請賠償程序 一般資料 38 4. 如果您的初步保障審核成功獲得批 核*我們會以電郵或電話形式通知 您或按您的要求 向您寄出初步保障審核確認 /付款保證信  如於香港以外的地方進行內窺鏡和病毒性疣及皮損程序 您的合資格費用將於非網絡保障 的其他 項目及附加醫療保障下賠償 以取代日間手術保障  有關受日間手 術保障所保障之內窺鏡和病毒性疣及皮損程序的完整列表請於保柏 客戶服務 網站 myBupa 上的會籍 文件頁面 查閱此列表可能會不時更改 *當保柏收妥所有所需資料及已簽署的申請表後約兩個工作天即可完成初步保障審核 以上步驟只適用於持有日間 手術保障及以下醫療卡類 別的會員 ClinicalClinical  Not for X -ray and LabHospital & Clin ical醫療卡類 別 CLINICAL CLINICAL  NOT FOR X -RAY & LAB HOSPITAL & CLINICAL --- Page 42 --- 申請賠償程序 申請住院及手術保障附加醫療保障及產科保障賠償 39 使用保柏網絡醫療卡 適用於持印有 HOSPITAL & CLINICAL 的保柏網絡醫療卡之成員 不使用保柏網絡醫療卡 住院期間  出示保柏網絡醫 療卡辦理登記手續  於已壓印的收據 簽署  填妥保柏住院 賠償申請表第一部分  醫院管理人員將 安排主診註冊西醫填寫 賠償申請表的第二部分  填妥保柏住院賠償申請表第一部分  請您的主診註冊西醫填妥保柏住院賠償 申請表第二部分 出院時  以保柏網絡醫 療卡結賬  自行支付醫療賬單及保留收據正本  保留醫療報告或出院證明紙如有 出院後  保柏會向醫院支付費用  保柏會通知您繳付差額費用如有  在出院後90日內向保柏呈交 o 填妥的保柏住院賠償申請表 o 醫院收據正本 o 醫療報告如適用 o 出院證明紙病假紙如適用  您亦可在診治後 90日內透過 myBupa把 以上文件的圖像上載 於網上遞交賠償申 請 o 在遞交賠償申請後的 6個月內請保留 收據正本 保柏或會要求您提供 收據正 本以作審核 o 若您未能提供收據正本 您的 myBupa 網上遞交賠償申請服務可能會受 影響  保柏將於 5  7個工作天內支付您的合資 格費用 其他實用提示  請依照以上索償程序就懷孕而住院的醫療費用申請 產科保障賠償 持印有 HOSPITAL & CLINICAL 及 MA 的保柏網絡醫療卡 之成員可於 網絡服務供應商目錄所 列的本港私家 醫院使用此卡支付有關懷孕的醫療費用 至於產前檢查 產後檢查及診斷化驗之賠償申 請請 參閱門診保 障的索償程序  所有收據正本必須列載以下資料 o 住院治療日期 o 病人姓名 o 醫院及主診醫生的名稱及地址 o 病症 o 收費類別及項目 o 主診醫生醫院正式蓋印 及或簽署  如您入住醫管局轄下的醫院而有關 收據醫療報告 出院證 明紙或病假紙已提供 病症及診治詳 情則無須要求醫生填寫賠償申請表 的第二部分 --- Page 43 --- 申請賠償程序 申請門診保障及產科保障賠償使用保柏網絡醫療卡 40 前往網絡醫療服務機構求診  往網絡服務供應商目錄所列的網絡醫療服務機構求診  您須先往普通科醫生或專科 醫生求診取得有關 轉介信後方可往下列的網絡醫療服務機構求診  o 專科醫生 皮膚科 家庭醫學科婦 科眼科骨科耳鼻 喉科小兒外科 兒科及精神科除 外 o 物理治療師 o 化驗中心保柏亦接受由註冊 中醫或脊醫發出用於 X光及化驗的轉介信  網絡註冊西醫將協助您就以下項目向保柏 提出初步保 障審核的申請 o 診斷性 X光檢驗或化驗 (按保柏供應商指引之要求 ) o 非網絡專科醫生的治療只限於 保柏網絡未能提供 的專科服務 詳情請參閱第 36頁的有關網絡保障之初步保障審核程序的提示 出示保柏網絡醫療卡辦理登記手續  於診治前出示下列文 件 o 保柏網絡醫療卡 o 轉介信如適用 o 初步保障審核確認書如適用  於已壓印的診症收 據簽署 接受診治  在有需要時網絡註冊西醫或會向 您處方額外長期服用 或昂貴的藥物有關費用將按網絡保障 的醫生處方西 藥保障如適用作出賠償 支付賠償  保柏會向網絡醫療服務機構支付費用  保柏會通知您繳付差額費用如有 其他實用提示  持印有 MA 的保柏網絡 醫療卡之成員可於網絡醫療服務機構 使用此卡支付有關懷孕的醫 療費用 --- Page 44 --- 申請賠償程序 申請門診保障產科保障及牙科保障賠償不使用保柏網絡醫療卡 41 前往任何自選的醫療服務機構或註冊牙醫求診  往任何註 冊西醫物理治療師脊醫 註冊中醫化驗中心 臨床心理輔導或 註冊牙醫求診  您須先往普通科醫生或專科 醫生或主診精神科醫生求 診取得有關轉介信後方可往下 列的醫療 服務機構求 診 o 專科醫生 o 物理治療師 o 脊醫 o 化驗中心保柏亦接受由註冊中醫或脊醫 發出用於 X光及化驗的轉介信 o 臨床心理輔導必須由主診精神 科醫生轉介 接受診治及先行支付醫療賬單  謹記保留收據正本轉介 信及西藥處方如有 向保柏遞交賠償申請  在診治後90日內向保柏呈交 o 填妥的保柏門診賠償申請表 o 收據正本 o 轉介信如適用 正本或副本 o 西藥處方如適用 正本或副本  您亦可在診治後 90日內透過 myBup a把以上文件的圖像上 載於網上遞交賠償申請  o 在遞交賠償申請後的 6個月內請保留 收據正本 保柏或會要求您提供 收據正本以作審核 o 若您未能提供收據正本 您的 myBupa 網上遞交賠償申請服務可能會受影響  支付賠償  保柏將於 5  7個工作天內支付 您的合資格費用 --- Page 45 --- 申請賠償程序 申請門診保障產科保障及牙科保障賠償不使用保柏網絡醫療卡 42 其他實用提示  如因懷孕而需要往婦產科醫生求診及進行產前或產後檢查請 依照以上索償程序就有關醫療費用 申請產科保障賠償  所有收據正本必須列載以下資料 o 診治日期 o 病人姓名 o 醫療服務機構的名稱及地址 o 病症 o 收費類別及項目 o 醫療服務機構的正式蓋 印及或簽署  如申請中醫師保障或跌打醫師保障賠償收據正本必須連同處方正本一併遞 交  西藥處方及西 藥收據正本必 須列載以下資料 取藥地點 診所 藥房 所需索償文件 西藥收據正本 西藥處方 西藥收據正本 簽發文件的機構 診所 診所 藥房 簽發日期    病人姓名    醫療服務機構的名稱及地址    病症   藥物名稱    收費類別及項目   醫療服務機構的正式 蓋印及或簽署    --- Page 46 --- 申請賠償程序 申請網絡牙科保障賠償於網絡牙科中心診治 使用保柏網絡醫療卡 43 前往網絡牙科中心*求診  往網絡牙科中心 *求診 出示保柏網絡醫療卡辦理登記手續  於診治前出示下列文件 o 保柏網絡醫療卡 o 香港身份證  於已壓印的診症收 據簽署 接受診治  接受診治 支付賠償  保柏會審批網絡牙科中心*提交之索償如免繳費服務適用會直接向牙科 中心支付費用  保柏會通知您繳付差額費用如有 * 請先致電網絡牙科中心預約 網絡牙科中心指由保柏委任的牙科中心網絡以提供保障金額表上網絡 牙科保障所列的牙科服務項目網絡牙科中心地 點包括金鐘銅鑼灣鰂魚涌尖沙咀將軍澳 沙田青衣東涌等 此名單會不時更 新請登入myBupa 查閱最新的牙科中心地址 有關診症時間 請向個別網絡牙科中心查詢 --- Page 47 --- 不受保障項目 44 本計劃將不會保障因 下列各項直接或間接引致之治療 費用 1. 已存在病症成 員在保障生效日前已存在或出現徵狀的疾病或損傷  2. 不是醫療必需的治 療醫療服 務藥物或檢驗 3. 任何在法例下或其他保險計劃內或 從其他途徑可獲賠償之治 療疾病或損傷費用 除非此等費用未 能在該等補償保險計劃或途徑獲得賠償 4. 在水療中心天然治療中心康復院療養院老 人院或類似機構所提供之住宿護理或服務的 費用 5. 手術性或非手術性整容或 整形治療 會員因意外而受傷並於意外後一年內接受醫療上必需 的服 務則不屬此項 毛髮礦物質含量分析健康補品或體重控制經保柏批准則 除外的費用 6. 預防性措施包括但不限於常規驗血例行檢 驗預防注射 或接種疫苗 聽覺測驗因 視力不正 常而引致之治療 包括常規視 力測驗或所需之眼鏡或鏡片費用 屬有關保障範圍則除 外 7. 先天性疾病發 育異常或遺傳性疾病 8. 由本計劃的保障開始日起首 5年內因感染人體免疫力缺損病毒所引致的治療 9. 性病及其後遺症 10. 與懷孕有關的治療包括診斷性產科檢查生育墮胎或小產 屬產科保障範圍則除 外與男 女任何一方的節育 絕育或變性 有關的治療 由於不育 而直接或間接進行的治療 包括體外受孕 任何非自然受孕或人工受孕與性機能 失常有關之治療包括但不限於陽萎不舉及早泄不論 任何原因導致 11. 誤用或服用 過量藥物或受酒 精影響蓄意自傷身體或意 圖自殺而直接或間接引致的治療 12. 任何因參與犯罪活動而引致之 疾病或損傷 13. 另類治療 包括但不限於中藥治療針灸穴位按摩推拿催眠治療羅爾夫按摩療法按摩 治療香薰治療屬中醫師保障 跌打醫師保 障或精神科相關治療 保障如適用 範圍則除外  14. 老年性痴呆包括亞爾茲 海默氏病及帕金森氏病  15. 購買或使用輔助器具包括但不限於 眼鏡助聽器及其他 設備例如輪椅枴杖的費用 16. 任何與牙齒或牙肉疾病有關的 治療或檢查 屬牙科保障或 因意外引致緊急入院治療或住院脫除 阻 生智慧齒則 除外但不包括該住院後之 跟進治療屬牙 科保障範圍則除外 17. 因戰爭入侵外敵行動開戰不論是否已宣戰 內戰叛亂 革命起 義或軍人奪權恐 怖活動等 引致的治療 18. 非醫療性服務包括但不限於客人膳食收音機電話影印稅項就醫療服務所徵收 的增值 稅或商品及服務稅除外 醫療報告等費用 --- Page 48 --- 不受保障項目 45 19. 因不符合良好及謹慎 的醫療標準的實驗性或未經證實醫療成效的醫療技術或治療程序 而招致 的費用就 良好及謹慎的醫療標準之詮釋保柏將會考慮以 (I)醫療標準為必須經過適當審查 的獨立醫學期刊中臨床證明所界定;(II)相關專業機構的建 議; 及(III) 符合良好醫療守則標準  20. 從事或參與海軍陸軍或空軍任務或任何武裝部隊 之行動或從事或參與任 何類形之專業運動 --- Page 49 --- 特別詞彙釋義 46 某些詞彙於 團體醫療保障計劃的合約內有特定的意思以下為一些重要詞彙的定義  意外 指外在突發強烈及 不可預料而可見的事件此事件是導致身體受傷的 唯一原因且與其他事件無關 脊醫 指於香港或引致醫療費用的任何其他地方擁有最少等同香港 脊醫註冊條 例下的脊醫資格並從事藉矯正關節以提供脊骨療法的具法定資格人士 會員本身其親屬家人及業務伙伴則除外除非 經保柏批准 診所手術 指註冊西醫於診所進行之 醫療必需 手術而無 必要留院同時該手術須列於 外科手術表為診所手術 先天性疾病 指自出生已存在之醫學異常不論會員或投保人知道與否這包括但不 排除在醫學上視為先天性疾病之其他病症斜視腦積水睪丸 未降美 克爾氏憩室扁平足心間隔缺損及腹股溝斜疝小腸氣 日症 指註冊西醫於診所或醫院日症房可有效地進行之手術 非手術癌症治療及 洗腎如適用於此合約 而留院過夜乃非醫療必需但該手術須列於外科 手術表為日症手術 發育異常 指相較於同年齡或同發育 階段之預期發育情況而出現之發育異常這些缺 陷或殘障出現於 18歲之前 並可能預期會不確定的延續下來從而造成實 質上的損害這些障礙情況包含生物性及非生物性的因素在內這包括 但 不排除醫學上被視為發育異常的其他病症語言及學習障礙自閉症及智 力遲鈍 病症 指損傷或疾病包括所有由同一原因而起的病症及所有由此而起的併發 症除非此傷病與最近一次出院或最近一次診症已相隔 90日以上而期間並 沒有進行治療任何隨後由同一原因而起的病症視為獨立的病症 普通科醫生 指在香港醫務委員會以普通科登記或具其他同等資歷的註 冊西醫 遺傳性疾病 指通過基因由父母遺傳給子女的疾病 醫院 指任何對患病受傷或需要藥物治療人士提供醫療照顧的機構該機構 必須有政府批核的醫療設備包括能進行檢驗大手術及提供 24小時看 護服務並有一位註冊西醫駐診療養院護理中心老人院 濫用藥物 或酗酒復康中心包括位於醫院中的同類型部門 均不計算在內 住院 指由註冊西醫轉介接受以西方醫療及外科手術服務的醫療必需之住院根 據合約所訂會員必須在整個入院時段都住在醫院內而醫院有向會員收 取住房及膳食費用 --- Page 50 --- 特別詞彙釋義 47 醫療必需 指醫療上必需的 治療醫療服務 或藥物 (a) 以正常及慣常費用對診斷作出相應及慣常之治療  (b) 符合良好及謹慎的醫療標準 (c) 就有關診斷或治療所需的 (d) 非純為會員有關註冊西醫註冊中醫 脊醫物理治療師合資格 護士麻醉科醫生 註冊牙醫或任何其他醫療服務供應 商提供方便 (e) 以最合適 之程度向會員提供 安全及有效的治療及 (f) 住院非純為診斷掃描目的影像學檢驗或物理治療 為免存疑在考慮治療醫療服務或藥物是否醫療必需時主診註冊西醫 的建議並不是唯一的考慮因素 在不損害上述的一般性條件的原則下符合醫療所需條件的住院情況包括 但不限於以 下例子: (i) 會員因急症需要在醫院接受緊急治療 (ii) 手術在醫學上需要在 全身麻醉下進行 (iii) 醫院具備手術或治療程序所需的設備有 關手術或治療程序並不能以 日症病人的方式進行 (iv) 會員同時發生的傷病屬明顯嚴重及 / 或 (v) 考慮到會員的個人情況及會員安全後所需的醫療服務 應在醫院內進 行 就良好及謹慎的醫療標準之詮釋保柏將會考慮以下事項 I. 醫療標準為必須經過適當審 查的獨立醫學期刊中臨床證明所界定 II. 相關專業機構的建議及 III. 符合良好醫療守則標準  會員 指在本合約下受保障之僱員及其家屬 網絡牙科中心 指由保柏委任的牙科中心網絡以向會員提供保障金額表所列的牙科服務 項目並由 保柏支付會員的合資格醫療費此牙科服務供應商資料目錄由 保柏以印刷版或電子版提供並不時進行修訂 非手術癌症治療 指治療癌症的化療放射性治療標靶治療免疫治療及荷爾蒙治療 正常及慣常 指就醫療服務的收費而言對情況類似的人士 例如同性別及相近年齡  就類似傷病提供類似治療服務或物料時不超過當地相關醫療服務供應 者收取的一般收費範圍的水平正常及慣常的收費水平由保柏合理及絕對 真誠地決定在任何情況下此收費不得高於實際收費 保柏必須參照以下資料如適用以釐定正常及慣常收費 - (a) 由保險或醫 學業界進行的治療或服務費用統計及調 查 (b) 公司內部或業界的賠償統計 (c) 香港政府憲報及 / 或 (d) 提供治療服務或物料當地的其他相關參考資料 --- Page 51 --- 特別詞彙釋義 48 手術室 指任何指定並配備進行外科手術或程序的設 施及至少符合香港衛生署署 長發出的日間醫療中心實務守則或醫院實務守則或根據香港法例 第 633 章私營醫療機構條例規定的任何其他適用的實務守則或規例 的要求 每年最高賠償額 指於保障金額表內保障述要 住院及手術保障所載全部保障項目下會 員可享有的每合約年度最高賠償總額 物理治療師 指於香港或引致醫療費 用的任何其他地方擁有最少等同香港 輔助醫療業 條例下的註冊物理治療師資格並從事以運動人手治療及以機械能 熱能或電能就身體殘疾予以評估及醫治的具法定資格人士會員本身其 親屬家人及業務 伙伴則除外除非經保柏批准 註冊中醫 指於香港或引致醫療費用的任何其他地方擁有最少等同香港中醫藥條 例下的註冊中醫資格並從事中藥治療的法定認可中醫或任何人士會員 本身其親屬家人及業務夥伴則除外除非經保柏批 准 註冊牙醫 指於香港或引致醫 療費用的任何其他地方擁有最少等同香港 牙醫註冊條 例香港法例第 156章下的註冊牙醫資格並從事牙科服務的法定認可 牙醫或任何人士會員本身其親屬家人及業務夥伴則除外除非經保 柏批准 註冊西醫 指普通科醫生專科醫生或任何人於香港或治療當地擁有 最少等同香港醫 務委員會法定的西醫資格並提供西方醫療及外科手術服務的人士會員 其親屬家人及業務夥伴則除外除非經保柏批准 特別服務 指血液透析非手術癌症治療或放射同位素的治療 專科醫生 指保柏承認為專科醫生之註冊西醫或在香港醫務委員會以專科 登記的註 冊西醫或具其他同等資歷的人士並從事專科治療 --- Page 52 --- 您的個人資料 49 1. 我們非常重視您的個人資料的保密保柏須不時收集您或您家屬的個人資料以提供醫療保險服務 或辦理閣下提出之醫療保險索償之用包括但不限於您或您家屬的姓名身份證號 碼身份證影 印本護照號碼 護照影印本聯絡資料 健康及醫療信息和財 務信息以下簡稱個人資 料包括信用資料和以往 申索紀錄如適用如您未能提供這些個人資料保柏可能無 法 為您處理或提供保險產品服務或 其他相關服務 2. 所有申請 表格中包含的或透過任何索償程序或其他途徑 保柏不時收集或持有的個人資料保 柏將僅作以下用途 (i) 處理申請及提供售後服務  (ii) 處理任何索償分析及或與醫療或其他保險有關的查核  (iii) 提供及設計保柏的產品及服務  (iv) 偵測及防止欺詐行為無論是否與就此申請而簽發之保單及相關的任何 申請或索償  (v) 與由保柏提供之保險產品及或服務有關之資料 核對統計及研究 (vi) 就任何於第二部分中所述的用途與閣下或您的家屬聯絡  (vii) 允許保柏全部或部分的權益或業務的實際或建議承讓人受讓人 參與人或次 參與人 就涉及的轉讓出讓參與或次參與的交 易進行評估及 (viii) 為遵守適用的法律或監管要求而 作出披露 3. 個人資料將會轉讓至以下任 何受讓人包括香港以內及以外 以作於本部分第二段所述之用途 任何屬於保柏集團的公司任何保險代理人任何由保柏授權的再保險公司醫護專業人員及醫 院您的僱主任何代理人承包商或向保柏 提供行政電訊電腦付款資料 處理或儲存 印刷研究或其他就保柏業務的營運 向保柏提供服務的第三方服務供應商 包括但不限於保險 公司銀行律師會計師理賠調查員收數公司資料處理公 司防止欺詐 組織為保險業 界整合申索及承保 資料之組織研究服 務機構及專業顧問保柏的任何全部或部分的權 益或業 務的實際 或建議承讓人受讓人 參與人或次參與人為遵守任何法 例之要求或根據監管或其 他機關所發出對保柏具有約束力或要求其遵守的規則規例實務守則或指引而作出披露包 括但不限於適用監管機構政府機構相關行業認可機 構信貸資料服務機構或法院及在 其他 情況下法律規定保柏必向其披露的人士或機 構 4. 您有權要求查閱及更正我們持有的個人資料您可聯絡 保柏亞洲有限公司的保障資料主任 地址如下 香港九龍觀塘海濱道 77號海濱匯第 2座6樓如有任何查詢 請隨時致電我們的客 戶服務專線 (852) 2517 538 8 --- Page 53 --- Bupa (Asia) Limit ed Customer Car e helpdesk (852) 2517 5388 Facsimile (852) 2548 1848 www. bupa. com. hk6/F, Tower 2, The Quayside, 77 Hoi Bun Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong 77 26